Update main null safety page (#4211)
dart-lang/site-www: src/null-safety/index.md

description: Information about Dart's null safety feature
---

The Dart language comes with sound null safety!

When using sound null safety,
types in your code are non-nullable by default, meaning that
variables can’t contain `null` _unless you say they can._
With null safety, your **runtime** null-dereference errors
turn into **edit-time** analysis errors, enabling you to fix

> errors before deploying to customers.

Author: Thanks, took most of this

{{site.alert.warn}}

> In Dart 2.x SDKs, sound null safety is enabled or disabled
> via configuration of the project SDK constraint;
> see [Enabling/disabling null safety](#enable-null-safety) for details.
> 
> In Dart 3 -- tentatively planned for release by mid 2023 --
> sound null safety will always be enabled,
> and running _without_ sound null will no longer be possible.
> All existing code must be [migrated](#migrate) to sound null safety
> to be compatible with Dart 3.
> For details, see the [Dart 3 sound null safety tracking issue][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In Dart 2.x SDKs, sound null safety is enabled or disabled
  through configuration of the project SDK constraint;
  see [Enabling/disabling null safety](#enable-null-safety) for details.

  In Dart 3—tentatively planned for release by mid 2023—
  sound null safety will always be enabled,
  and running _without_ sound null safety will no longer be possible.
  All existing code must be [migrated](#migrate) to sound null safety
  to be compatible with Dart 3.
  For details, see the [Dart 3 sound null safety tracking issue][].
```

Author: Overall I like this a lot. But is it correct to use "Dart 3 *requires*" for a release that is in the future?

Author: OK, I took most of this

{{site.alert.end}}

[Dart 3 sound null safety tracking issue]: https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/49530

> ## Introduction via examples

Reviewer: We tend to not use [via](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#via). Perhaps "through" would be better?

```suggestion
## Introduction through examples
```

With null safety,

> all of the variables in the following code are non-nullable:

Author: "non-nullable" is a key concept to introduce (in null safety, variables are either nullable or non-nullable), so this changes the meaning a bit too much

description: Information about Dart's null safety feature
---

The Dart language comes with sound null safety.

Null safety prevents errors that result from unintentionel access
of variables set to `null`.
For example, if a method expects an integer but receives `null`,
your app causes a runtime error. This type of error, a null dereference error,
can be difficult to debug.

> With sound null safety variables are 'non-nullable' by default.

Author: See below

You can specify that the type of a variable is nullable,

> and only then can they contain a `null`.

Reviewer 2: **question:** Is this redundant? Does saying a variable type is nullable the same as saying the variable can contain `null`?

Author: It's not redundant, but I can see the confusion.

All variables have a type (e.g. `int` or `String`). Prior to null safety, those types were all nullable, so a variable could contain either a value of the specified type (e.g. 42 or "Foo") OR they could contain a null.

With null safety, all types are either non-nullable (e.g. `int` or `String) or nullable (e.g. `int?` or `String?`). Variables of the former can never contain null, while the latter still can.

Should I try to work this into the introduction (which would also address the comment above)?

Reviewer 3: I think addressing the previous comment would essentially do this.  That is, if your previous sentence looked like "'non-nullable' by default, which means that they are not allowed to contain `null`", then this sentence in turn de facto defines what nullable means.

Author: OK, I took a stab at that, PTAL

Sound null safety changes potential **runtime errors**
into **edit-time** analysis errors.
This allows you to fix these errors before deploying your app.

{{site.alert.warn}}
In Dart 2.x SDKs, you can enable or disable sound null safety 
through configuration of the project SDK constraint.
To learn more, see [Enabling/disabling null safety](#enable-null-safety).

> Dart 3 -- tentatively planned for release by mid 2023 --

Reviewer 2: **nit:** [Google style does not use spaces before or after em dashes](https://developers.google.com/style/dashes?hl=en#em-dashes).
```suggestion
Dart 3--planned for a mid-2023 release--
```

**issue:** Plans are tentative. The adverb adds no value to the sentence. I would remove it.

int? aNullableInt = null;
```

For more interactive examples,
see the [null safety codelab][Null safety codelab].
For an in-depth discussion, see

> [Understanding null safety](/null-safety/understanding-null-safety).

Author: Merged in manually

  fewer bugs, but smaller binaries and faster execution.

## Enabling/disabling null safety {#enable-null-safety}

> Sound null safety is available in Dart 2.12 or later,
> and in Flutter 2.0 and later. Dart 3 and later will
> [_only_ support sound null safety][Dart 3 sound null safety tracking issue].

Reviewer: Lots of "and later"s, maybe we can combine the first two:

```suggestion
Sound null safety is available
in Dart 2.12 and Flutter 2.0 or later,
Dart 3 and later will
[_only_ support sound null safety][Dart 3 sound null safety tracking issue].
```

Author: Hmm, I think "will require sound null safety" might be confused with "you can use null safety or not, but if you use it, it must be sound".  I still think "will only support sound null safety" reads stronger?

> Sound null safety is currently enabled by setting the

Reviewer: Since the header is removed, can we add a link target for anywhere currently referencing it? 

```suggestion
<a id="constraints"></a>
Sound null safety is currently enabled by setting the
```

[language version]: /guides/language/evolution#language-versioning

### Migrating an existing package or app {#migrate}

> The Dart SDK contains a tool that can help you
> migrate code written prior to Dart 2.12 to support
> sound null safety:

Reviewer 2: **issue:** Simplify the language.
```suggestion
The Dart SDK includes the `dart migrate` tool.
This tool helps you migrate code that supports sound null safety. 
Use `dart migrate` if you wrote Dart code with Dart 2.12 or earlier.
```

>   ```terminal
>   $ cd my_app
>   $ dart migrate
>   ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```terminal
$ cd my_app
$ dart migrate
```
````

> For details instructions on how to migrate your code to null safety,
> see the [migration guide][].

Reviewer 2: **issue:** Give the reader agency.
```suggestion
To learn how to migrate your code to null safety,
see the [migration guide][].
```
